1. Sci Total Environ. 2022 Jul 20;831:154808. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.154808. 
Epub 2022 Mar 24.

Persistent organic pollutants in water resources: Fate, occurrence, 
characterization and risk analysis.

Aravind Kumar J(1), Krithiga T(2), Sathish S(3), Renita AA(4), Prabu D(3), 
Lokesh S(5), Geetha R(6), Namasivayam SKR(7), Sillanpaa M(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomass and Energy Conversion, Saveetha School of Engineering, 
SIMATS, Chennai, 602105, India. Electronic address: arvindhjsbu@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Sathyabama Institute of Science and Technology, 
Chennai - 600119, India.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering, Sathyabama Institute of Science and 
Technology, Chennai - 600119, India.
(4)Department of Chemical Engineering, Sathyabama Institute of Science and 
Technology, Chennai - 600119, India. Electronic address: reniriana@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Biomass and Energy Conversion, Saveetha School of Engineering, 
SIMATS, Chennai, 602105, India.
(6)Department of Instrumentation and Control Engineering, Saveetha School of 
Engineering, SIMATS, Chennai, India.
(7)Division of Research and Innovation, Department of Biotechnology, Saveetha 
School of Engineering, SIMATS, Chennai, 602105, India.
(8)Department of Chemical Engineering, School of Mining, Metallurgy and Chemical 
Engineering, University of Johannesburg, P. O. Box 17011, Doornfontein 2028, 
South Africa; Department of Applied Physics, Faculty of Science and Technology, 
Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, 43600 Bangi, Selangor, Malaysia; International 
Research Centre of Nanotechnology for Himalayan Sustainability (IRCNHS), 
Shoolini University, Solan, 173212, Himachal Pradesh, India.

Persistent organic pollutants (POPs) are organic chemicals that can persist in 
the environment for a longer period due to their non-biodegradability. The 
pervasive and bio-accumulative behavior of POPs makes them highly toxic to the 
environmental species including plants, animals, and humans. The present review 
specifies the POP along with their fate, persistence, occurrence, and risk 
analysis towards humans. The different biological POPs degradation methods, 
especially the microbial degradation using bacteria, fungi, algae, and 
actinomycetes, and their mechanisms were described. Moreover, the source, 
transport of POPs to the environmental sources, and the toxic nature of POPs 
were discussed in detail. Agricultural and industrial activities are 
distinguished as the primary source of these toxic compounds, which are 
delivered to air, soil, and water, affecting on the social and economic 
advancement of society at a worldwide scale. This review also demonstrated the 
microbial degradation of POPs and outlines the potential for an 
eco-accommodating and cost-effective approach for the biological remediation of 
POPs using microbes. The direction for future research in eliminating POPs from 
the environmental sources through various microbial processes was emphasized.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.154808
PMID: 35341870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


2. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2019 Sep 30;180:668-678. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2019.05.060. Epub 2019 May 27.

Persistent organic pollutants in typical lake ecosystems.

Li C(1), Yang L(1), Shi M(2), Liu G(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Environmental Chemistry and Ecotoxicology, Research 
Center for Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
100085, China; College of Resources and Environment, University of Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100190, PR China.
(2)Hebei Engineering Research Center for Geographic Information Application, 
Institute of Geographical Sciences, Hebei Academy of Sciences, Shijiazhuang, 
050051, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Environmental Chemistry and Ecotoxicology, Research 
Center for Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
100085, China; College of Resources and Environment, University of Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100190, PR China. Electronic address: 
grliu@rcees.ac.cn.

Persistent organic pollutants (POPs) are highly toxic organic chemicals. Lakes 
are one of the main sinks of POPs. POPs can be accumulated in multiple matrices 
in lake ecosystems and biomagnified through the food web, and thus pose a 
potential threat not only to lake ecosystems, but also to human health. Given 
their potential persistent risks, they have received much attention over the 
past decades. This review comprehensively summarizes the data on the levels and 
distributions of POPs in selected typical lake ecosystems in China and 
worldwide, involving water, sediments, organisms, and surrounding soils and 
atmosphere. It was found that current publications on POPs in Chinese lakes are 
mainly related to lakes in the developed eastern plain area, with only a few 
studies concerning the less-developed Qinghai-Tibet Plateau area. Similarly, 
around the world, there are more research on POPs in developed countries and 
less in relatively less-developed areas. Moreover, there are significant 
differences in the levels of POPs in different matrices in different lake 
ecosystems. Legacy POPs, such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), 
organochlorine pesticides (OCPs), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), 
polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs), and 
polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs), were commonly detected and reported in 
different lakes, while emerging POPs like perfluorinated compounds (PFCs), 
polychlorinated naphthalenes (PCNs), Tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA), and 
hexabromocyclododecane (HCBD) were relatively less detected or reported. A 
comprehensive summarization on the levels and distributions of traditional and 
emerging POPs in lake ecosystems could be significant for further understanding 
the behaviors and risks of POPs in lake ecosystems.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2019.05.060
PMID: 31146153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Mar Pollut Bull. 2021 Nov;172:112864. doi: 10.1016/j.marpolbul.2021.112864. Epub 
2021 Sep 2.

Persistent organic pollutants (POPs) in coastal wetlands: A review of their 
occurrences, toxic effects, and biogeochemical cycling.

Girones L(1), Oliva AL(2), Negrin VL(3), Marcovecchio JE(4), Arias AH(5).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Argentino de Oceanografía (IADO - CONICET/UNS), Camino La 
Carrindanga km 7.5, 8000 Bahía Blanca, Argentina. Electronic address: 
lgirones@iado-conicet.gob.ar.
(2)Instituto Argentino de Oceanografía (IADO - CONICET/UNS), Camino La 
Carrindanga km 7.5, 8000 Bahía Blanca, Argentina.
(3)Instituto Argentino de Oceanografía (IADO - CONICET/UNS), Camino La 
Carrindanga km 7.5, 8000 Bahía Blanca, Argentina; Departamento de Biología, 
Bioquímica y Farmacia, Universidad Nacional del Sur, Bahía Blanca, Argentina.
(4)Instituto Argentino de Oceanografía (IADO - CONICET/UNS), Camino La 
Carrindanga km 7.5, 8000 Bahía Blanca, Argentina; Universidad Tecnológica 
Nacional (UTN)-FRBB, Bahía Blanca, Argentina; Universidad FASTA, Mar del Plata, 
Argentina.
(5)Instituto Argentino de Oceanografía (IADO - CONICET/UNS), Camino La 
Carrindanga km 7.5, 8000 Bahía Blanca, Argentina; Departamento de Química, 
Universidad Nacional del Sur, Bahía Blanca, Argentina.

Coastal wetlands, such as mangroves, seagrass beds, and salt marshes, are highly 
threatened by increasing anthropic pressures, including chemical pollution. 
Persistent organic pollutants (POPs) have attracted attention in these 
particularly vulnerable ecosystems, due to their bioaccumulative, pervasive, and 
ecotoxic behavior. This article reviews and summarizes available information 
regarding current levels, biogeochemical cycling, and effects of POPs on coastal 
wetlands. Sediment POP levels were compared with international quality 
guidelines, revealing many areas where compounds could cause damage to biota. 
Despite this, toxicological studies on some coastal wetland plants and 
microorganisms showed a high tolerance to those levels. These taxonomic groups 
are likely to play a key role in the cycling of the POPs, with an active role in 
their accumulation, immobilization, and degradation. Toxicity and biogeochemical 
processes varied markedly along three main axes; namely species, environmental 
conditions, and type of pollutant. While more focused research on newly and 
unintentionally produced POPs is needed, mainly in salt marshes and seagrass 
beds, with the information available so far, the environmental behavior, spatial 
distribution, and toxicity level of the studied POPs showed similar patterns 
across the three studied ecosystems.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.marpolbul.2021.112864
PMID: 34482253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Sci Total Environ. 2018 Mar 15;618:500-517. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.11.052. Epub 2017 Nov 13.

The distribution and trends of persistent organic pollutants and mercury in 
marine mammals from Canada's Eastern Arctic.

Brown TM(1), Macdonald RW(2), Muir DCG(3), Letcher RJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Memorial University of Newfoundland, St. John's, Newfoundland A1B 3X9, 
Canada. Electronic address: tanya_brown@sfu.ca.
(2)Fisheries, Oceans and the Canadian Coast Guard, Institute of Ocean Sciences, 
Sidney, British Columbia V8L 4B2, Canada; Centre for Earth Observation Science, 
Department of Environment and Geography, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg R3T 
2N2, Canada.
(3)Environment Canada, Canada Centre for Inland Waters, 867 Lakeshore Road, 
Burlington, Ontario L7R 4A6, Canada.
(4)Environment and Climate Change Canada, National Wildlife Research Centre, 
Carleton University, Raven Road, Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0H3, Canada.

Arctic contaminant research in the marine environment has focused on 
organohalogen compounds and mercury mainly because they are bioaccumulative, 
persistent and toxic. This review summarizes and discusses the patterns and 
trends of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) and mercury in ringed seals (Pusa 
hispida) and polar bears (Ursus maritimus) in the Eastern Canadian Arctic 
relative to the rest of the Canadian Arctic. The review provides explanations 
for these trends and looks at the implications of climate-related changes on 
contaminants in these marine mammals in a region that has been reviewed little. 
Presently, the highest levels of total mercury (THg) and the legacy pesticide 
HCH in ringed seals and polar bears are found in the Western Canadian Arctic 
relative to other locations. Whereas, highest levels of some legacy 
contaminants, including ∑PCBs, PCB 153, ∑DDTs, p,p'-DDE, ∑CHLs, ClBz are found 
in the east (i.e., Ungava Bay and Labrador) and in the Beaufort Sea relative to 
other locations. The highest levels of recent contaminants, including PBDEs and 
PFOS are found at lower latitudes. Feeding ecology (e.g., feeding at a higher 
trophic position) is shaping the elevated levels of THg and some legacy 
contaminants in the west compared to the east. Spatial and temporal trends for 
POPs and THg are underpinned by historical loadings of surface ocean reservoirs 
including the Western Arctic Ocean and the North Atlantic Ocean. Trends set up 
by the distribution of water masses across the Canadian Arctic Archipelago are 
then acted upon locally by on-going atmospheric deposition, which is the 
dominant contributor for more recent contaminants. Warming and continued decline 
in sea ice are likely to result in further shifts in food web structure, which 
are likely to increase contaminant burdens in marine mammals. Monitoring of 
seawater and a range of trophic levels would provide a better basis to inform 
communities about contaminants in traditionally harvested foods, allow us to 
understand the causes of contaminant trends in marine ecosystems, and to track 
environmental response to source controls instituted under international 
conventions.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.11.052
PMID: 29145101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Environ Pollut. 2018 Jun;237:111-125. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2018.01.055. Epub 
2018 Feb 23.

Bioaccumulation of organic pollutants in Indo-Pacific humpback dolphin: A review 
on current knowledge and future prospects.

Sanganyado E(1), Rajput IR(1), Liu W(2).

Author information:
(1)Marine Biology Institute, Shantou University, Shantou, Guangdong Province, 
China.
(2)Marine Biology Institute, Shantou University, Shantou, Guangdong Province, 
China. Electronic address: whliu@stu.edu.cn.

Indo-Pacific humpback dolphin (Sousa chinensis) are chronically exposed to 
organic pollutants since they inhabit shallow coastal waters that are often 
impacted by anthropogenic activities. The aim of this review was to evaluate 
existing knowledge on the occurrence of organic pollutants in Indo-Pacific 
humpback dolphins, identify knowledge gaps, and offer recommendations for future 
research directions. We discussed the trends in the bioaccumulation of organic 
pollutants in Indo-Pacific humpback dolphins focusing on sources, 
physicochemical properties, and usage patterns. Furthermore, we examined factors 
that influence bioaccumulation such as gender, age, dietary intake and 
tissue-specific distribution. Studies on bioaccumulation in Indo-Pacific 
humpback dolphin remain scarce, despite high concentrations above 13,000 ng/g lw 
we previously detected for PFOS, ∑PBDE and chlorinated paraffins. The maximum 
concentration of organochlorines detected was 157,000 ng/g wt. Furthermore, 
variations in bioaccumulation were shown to be caused by factors such as usage 
patterns and physicochemical properties of the pollutant. However, restrictions 
in sampling inhibit investigations on exposure pathway and toxicity of organic 
pollutants in Indo-Pacific humpback dolphin. We proposed the use of biopsy 
sampling, predictive bioaccumulation and toxicity modeling, and monitoring other 
emerging contaminants such as microplastics and pharmaceuticals for future 
health risk assessment on this critically endangered marine mammal species.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2018.01.055
PMID: 29477865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Chemosphere. 2014 Aug;108:145-51. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2014.01.036. Epub 
2014 Feb 28.

Accumulation of persistent organic pollutants in parasites.

Yen Le TT(1), Rijsdijk L(2), Sures B(3), Hendriks AJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Science, Institute for Water and Wetland 
Research, Radboud University Nijmegen, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
YenLe@science.ru.nl.
(2)Department of Environmental Science, Institute for Water and Wetland 
Research, Radboud University Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Aquatic Ecology and Centre for Water and Environmental Research 
(ZWU), University of Duisburg Essen, Germany.

Organisms are simultaneously exposed to various stressors, including parasites 
and pollutants, that may interact with each other. Research on the accumulation 
of organic compounds in host-parasite systems is scant compared to studies on 
parasite-metal interactions and mainly focuses on intestinal endoparasites. We 
reviewed factors that determine the accumulation of persistent organic 
pollutants (POPs) in host-parasite systems. The wet/dry weight-based 
concentration of POPs in these parasites is usually lower than that in host 
tissues because of lower lipid contents in the parasites. However, the 
fractionation of the pollutants into parasites and their hosts may vary, 
depending on developmental stages in the life cycle of the parasites. 
Developmental stages determine the trophic relationship and the taxon of the 
parasite in the host-parasite systems because of different feeding strategies 
between the stages. Lipid-corrected concentrations of organic chemicals in the 
host are usually higher than those in the endoparasites studied. This phenomenon 
is attributed to a number of physiological and behavioural processes, such as 
feeding selectivity and strategy and excretion. Moreover, no significant 
relationship was found between the accumulation factor (i.e. the ratio between 
the lipid-corrected concentrations in parasites and in their hosts) for 
polychlorinated biphenyls and either hydrophobicity or molecular size. At the 
intermediate hydrophobicity, larger and more lipophilic compounds are 
accumulated at higher levels in both parasites and the host than smaller and 
less lipophilic compounds. The bioaccumulation of POPs in parasites is affected 
by some other abiotic, e.g. temperature, and biotic factors, e.g. the number of 
host species infected by parasites.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2014.01.036
PMID: 24582601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Rev Environ Contam Toxicol. 2014;227:107-55. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-01327-5_4.

Bioamplification as a bioaccumulation mechanism for persistent organic 
pollutants (POPs) in wildlife.

Daley JM(1), Paterson G, Drouillard KG.

Author information:
(1)Great Lakes Institute for Environmental Research, University of Windsor, 
Windsor, ON, Canada, N9B 3P4, daleyj@uwindsor.ca.

Persistent organic pollutant bioaccumulation models have generally been 
formulated to predict bioconcentration and biomagnification. A third 
bioaccumulation process that can mediate chemical fugacity in an organism is 
bioamplification.Bioamplification occurs when an organism loses body weight and 
the chemical partitioning capacity occurs at a rate that is faster than the 
chemical can be eliminated.Although bioamplification has not been widely 
recognized as a bioaccumulation process, the potential consequences of this 
process are significant. Bioamplification causes an increase in chemical 
fugacity in the animal's tissues and results in there distribution of 
contaminants from inert storage sites to more toxicologically sensitive tissues. 
By reviewing laboratory and field studies, we have shown in this paper that 
bioamplification occurs across taxonomic groups that include, 
invertebrates,amphibians, fishes, birds, and mammals. Two case studies are 
presented, and constitute multi-life stage non-steady state bioaccumulation 
models calibrated for yellow perch and herring gulls. These case studies were 
used to demonstrate that bioamplification is predicted to occur under realistic 
scenarios of animal growth and seasonal weight loss. Bioamplification greatly 
enhances POP concentrations and chemical fugacities during critical 
physiological and behavioral events in an animal's life history, e.g., embryo 
development, juvenile stages, metamorphosis, reproduction, migration, 
overwintering, hibernation, and disease. Consequently,understanding the dynamics 
of bioamplification, and how different life history scenario scan alter tissue 
residues, may be helpful and important in assessing wildlife hazards and risks.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-01327-5_4
PMID: 24158581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Environ Int. 2023 Jan;171:107711. doi: 10.1016/j.envint.2022.107711. Epub 2022 
Dec 21.

Combined toxicity of micro/nanoplastics loaded with environmental pollutants to 
organisms and cells: Role, effects, and mechanism.

Sun N(1), Shi H(1), Li X(1), Gao C(1), Liu R(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Shandong University, 
China-America CRC for Environment & Health, Shandong Province, 72#, Jimo Binhai 
Road, Qingdao, Shandong 266237, PR China.
(2)School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Shandong University, 
China-America CRC for Environment & Health, Shandong Province, 72#, Jimo Binhai 
Road, Qingdao, Shandong 266237, PR China. Electronic address: 
rutaoliu@sdu.edu.cn.

Micro/nanoplastics (MPs/NPs) are ubiquitous in the environment and living 
organisms have been exposed to these substances for a long time. When MPs/NPs 
enter different organisms, they transport various pollutants, including heavy 
metals, persistent organic pollutants, drugs, bacteria, and viruses, from the 
environment. On this basis, this paper summarizes the combined toxicity induced 
by MPs/NPs accumulating contaminants from the environment and entering organisms 
through a systematic review of 162 articles. Moreover, the factors influencing 
toxic interactions are critically discussed, thus highlighting the dominant role 
of the relative concentrations of contaminants in the combined toxic effects. 
Furthermore, for the first time, we describe the threats posed by MPs/NPs 
combined with other pollutants to human health, as well as their cytotoxic 
behavior and mechanism. We found that the "Trojan horse" effect of nanoplastics 
can increase the bioaccessibility of environmental pollutants, thus increasing 
the carcinogenic risk to humans. Simultaneously, the complex pollutants entering 
the cells are observed to be constantly dissociated due to the transport of 
lysosomes. However, current research on the intracellular release of 
MP/NP-loaded pollutants is relatively poor, which hinders the accurate in vivo 
toxicity assessment of combined pollutants. Based on the findings of our 
critical review, we recommend analyzing the toxic effects by clarifying the dose 
relationship of each component pollutant in cells, which is challenging yet 
crucial to exploring the toxic mechanism of combined pollution. In the future, 
our findings can contribute to establishing a system modeling the complete 
load-translocation toxicological mechanism of MP/NP-based composite pollutants.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envint.2022.107711
PMID: 36566717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


9. Sci Total Environ. 2016 Dec 15;573:139-154. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2016.08.107. Epub 2016 Aug 23.

A review of current knowledge and future prospects regarding persistent organic 
pollutants over the Tibetan Plateau.

Wang X(1), Gong P(2), Wang C(3), Ren J(4), Yao T(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Tibetan Environment Changes and Land Surface Processes, 
Institute of Tibetan Plateau Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), 
Beijing 100101, China; CAS Center for Excellence in Tibetan Plateau Earth 
Sciences, Beijing 100101, China. Electronic address: wangxp@itpcas.ac.cn.
(2)Key Laboratory of Tibetan Environment Changes and Land Surface Processes, 
Institute of Tibetan Plateau Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), 
Beijing 100101, China; CAS Center for Excellence in Tibetan Plateau Earth 
Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Tibetan Environment Changes and Land Surface Processes, 
Institute of Tibetan Plateau Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), 
Beijing 100101, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Tibetan Environment Changes and Land Surface Processes, 
Institute of Tibetan Plateau Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), 
Beijing 100101, China; University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 
100049, China.

Since the turn of the century, our understanding of the quantities, transport 
pathways, and fate of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) over the Tibetan 
Plateau (TP), the largest and highest plateau on Earth, has greatly enhanced. We 
begin in this article by reviewing the available literature on the levels of 
POPs over the TP. In general, the levels of most POPs are similar or lower than 
values reported for other background regions. However, 
dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) and hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) levels in 
air and soil far exceed those measured in other mountainous areas. The East 
Asian monsoon, Indian Monsoon and westerly winds are responsible for the 
long-range atmospheric transport (LRAT) and arrival of POPs over the TP. Surface 
soil and vegetation act as "final sinks" for DDTs and other high molecular 
weight POPs. Linked to the continuous use of POPs in surrounding counties, LRAT 
and "cold trapping" by the TP can happen following emission-transport-deposition 
events, leading to the enrichment of POPs in the TP environment. Bioaccumulation 
of DDTs and high chlorinated PCBs have been found in Tibetan terrestrial and 
aquatic food chains, and newly emerging compounds such as polyfluoroalkyl 
substances and hexabromocyclododecanes have been widely detected in wild fish 
species. The corresponding ecological risks should be of great concern. Climate 
change, such as increased temperatures and changing coverage of snow and 
glaciers, has the potential to affect the behavior and distribution of POPs. 
Therefore, long-term monitoring data are required. Ineffective regulation 
regarding POPs has been reported for countries in South Asia, emissions 
patterns, the outflow of POPs, and their seasonal and inter-annual variability 
should therefore be clarified. Estimating the loading of POPs, as well as how 
they move, within the TP, especially under the impact of glacial melt and global 
warming, should be a priority.

Copyright Â© 2016. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2016.08.107
PMID: 27565527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Environ Pollut. 2019 May;248:320-331. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2019.02.032. Epub 
2019 Feb 11.

Environmentally persistent free radicals: Occurrence, formation mechanisms and 
implications.

Pan B(1), Li H(2), Lang D(1), Xing B(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Environmental Science & Engineering, Kunming University of Science 
& Technology, Kunming, 650500, Yunnan, China; Yunnan Provincial Key Laboratory 
of Soil Carbon Sequestration and Pollution Control in Soils, Kunming, 650500, 
Yunnan, China.
(2)Faculty of Environmental Science & Engineering, Kunming University of Science 
& Technology, Kunming, 650500, Yunnan, China; Yunnan Provincial Key Laboratory 
of Soil Carbon Sequestration and Pollution Control in Soils, Kunming, 650500, 
Yunnan, China; Stockbridge School of Agriculture, University of Massachusetts, 
Amherst, MA, 01003, United States.
(3)Stockbridge School of Agriculture, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, 
01003, United States. Electronic address: bx@umass.edu.

Environmentally persistent free radicals (EPFRs) are defined as organic free 
radicals stabilized on or inside particles. They are persistent because of the 
protection by the particles and show significant toxicity to organisms. 
Increasing research interests have been attracted to study the potential 
environmental implications of EPFRs. Because of their different physical forms 
from conventional contaminants, it is not applicable to use the commonly used 
technique and strategy to predict and assess the behavior and risks of EPFRs. 
Current studies on EPFRs are scattered and not systematic enough to draw clear 
conclusions. Therefore, this review is organized to critically discuss the 
current research progress on EPFRs, highlighting their occurrence and transport, 
generation mechanisms, as well as their environmental implications (including 
both toxicity and reactivity). EPFR formation and stabilization as affected by 
the precursors and environmental factors are useful breakthrough to understand 
their formation mechanisms. To better understand the major differences between 
EPFRs and common contaminants, we identified the unique processes and/or 
mechanisms related to EPFRs. The knowledge gaps will be also addressed to 
highlight the future research while summarizing the research progress. 
Quantitative analysis of the interactions between organic contaminants and EPFRs 
will greatly improve the predictive accuracy of the multimedia environmental 
fate models. In addition, the health risks will be better evaluated when 
considering the toxicity contributed by EFPRs.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2019.02.032
PMID: 30802746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]